Nest 2nd version - 02 nest (#5)
raven-os/getting-started: nest/02.nest.md

# 2 nest
In this chapter, we will detail how to use the command `nest`.
As explained before, this command is mainly designed for ease of use.
However, anyone can use it.

## 2.1 nest commands
### 2.1.1 Updating the list of available packages with `nest pull`
Nest uses a local cache to store the list of available packages you can install.
When you're installing a package, Nest will search for it in this cache.
The command to update the cache containing the list of available packages, is `nest pull`.

Example:
```
$ nest pull
1 pending transaction:

    pull stable

Would you like to apply this transaction? [Yes/no] y
Pulling stable...
Successfully pulled 1 repository
```

> Attention
>
> Nest won't be able to install packages that are not in your cache, so it's really important to keep your cache up-to-date as often as possible.
> This also means that if a new version of a package comes out after the last time you updated the cache, Nest won't install it.
> It's recommended to run `nest pull` before installing and before upgrading a package.

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.1.3)
> Common issue
> * `error: unable to pull repository stable: no working mirror found`
>

> > Basically, this error means that `nest` couldn't pull the repository `stable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error means that `nest` couldn't pull the repository `stable`.
```

# 2 nest
In this chapter, we will detail how to use the command `nest`.
As explained before, this command is mainly designed for ease of use.
However, anyone can use it.

## 2.1 nest commands
### 2.1.1 Updating the list of available packages with `nest pull`
Nest uses a local cache to store the list of available packages you can install.
When you're installing a package, Nest will search for it in this cache.
The command to update the cache containing the list of available packages, is `nest pull`.

Its output looks like this:

```
$ nest pull
1 pending transaction:

    pull stable

> Would you like to apply this transaction? [Yes/no] 

Reviewer: Shouldn't there be an inputed "Y/y" or something like that?

Pulling stable...
Successfully pulled 1 repository
```

> Attention
>

> > Nest won't be able to install packages that are not in your cache, so it's really important to keep your cache up-to-date as often as possible.

Reviewer: > your cache

You could include a link to what this is.

Author: The cache is explained just at the start of the same section, I don't think it's necessary to link this to the same section it is in

Reviewer: OK.

> > If a new package or a new version of a package comes out after the last time you updated the cache, Nest won't be able to install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This also means that if a new version of a package comes out after the last time you updated the cache, Nest won't install it.
```
(remove redundant information, clarified link between this and previous sentence)

> > It's recommended to run `nest pull` at least before installing and before upgrading a package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It's recommended to run `nest pull` before installing and before upgrading a package.
```

#### Common issues
* `error: unable to pull repository stable: no working mirror found`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.1.3)
Basically, this error means that `nest` couldn't pull the repository `stable`.
The most common reason is that there's an issue with your Internet connection.
It might also be that all the mirrors in the repositories configuration file are down, so you need to add working mirrors to the list.
You can have more information about this file and mirrors in [the section 3.1.3]().

### 2.1.2 Installing and uninstalling a package
#### Installing a package with `nest install`
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.4)
`nest install` is the command to install a package.
To do so, run `nest install <package>` in a terminal.
Don't forget to use the syntax explained in [section 1.4]() for the package name!

`nest` will print an error message if more than one package matches the syntax you wrote.
In that case, you should first refine your package name.

> To help you with that, you can go on [the official Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org), which will show you all the packages in the `stable` repository, with their category and all  versions released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help you with that, you can go on [the official Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org), which will show you all the packages in the `stable` repository, with their category and all versions released.
```
(double space)

> For example, the output of `nest install stable::sys-bin/ncurses6-bin` is as followed:

Reviewer: Why doesn't the example match ? This is can be really confusing.
Also, maybe just a simple "Example:" may be enough.

```
$ nest install ncurses6-bin
4 pending transactions:

 install stable::sys-lib/libncurses6-term#6.1.0
 install stable::sys-lib/libc6#2.28.0
 install stable::sys-lib/libncursestw6#6.1.0
 install stable::sys-bin/ncurses6-bin#6.1.0

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no]
```

As you can see, the last package listed above is the package you initially asked to install, and above it are all the dependencies that it has and that aren't already installed.

#### Uninstalling a package with `nest uninstall`
The command to uninstall a package is `nest uninstall <package>`.

It will remove the given package, its binaries, libraries, manual pages...
Basically everything that was installed with it, but it will keep all the files generated by the package itself.
So, if this package was a text editor for example, the files you created or edited with it won't be altered if you uninstall the package.

However, this may not remove all the package's dependencies, because some of them might still be used by another installed package.

> 

Reviewer: Following @Arignir's lead, example ?

However, this may not remove all the package's dependencies, because some of them might still be used by another installed package.

> ```

Reviewer 2: Missing an `Example:` or stg similar

Author: There is `Example of use:` on the line just above this one

Reviewer 2: To me, the previous line is blank. Am I blind or are we not talking of the same thing?

Author: To me, it's not D:
anyway, my next commit should fix this

* `error: unable to find an installed package matching <package>`

The package you wanted to uninstall can't be found.
Check the package name syntax for any typo and ensure you actually have this package installed.

> #### 2.1.3 List all installed packages with `nest list`

Reviewer 2: Example! 

It's a rule: do not explain any command without adding an example

By default, this command won't print the dependencies of the installed packages.
To do so, add the flag `--with-deps`.

> Example of output:

Reviewer 2: I would go for the simple yet popular `Example`, without the `of output`. It's more coherent with the other examples and general what people may see in similar getting started.

What do you think?
